README.md, before:

# LLM Finetuning: GraphRAG with GNN+LLM architecture on STaRK-Prime Knowledge Graph

This repo contains experiments for Knowledge Graph Retrieval (GraphRAG) with a GNN+LLM architecture for Q&A on the STaRK-Prime benchmark dataset. We use the base GNN+LLM architecture [G-Retriever](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07630), and [STaRK-Prime KG Q&A](https://stark.stanford.edu/dataset_prime.html) benchmark.

This work is based on [neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example](https://github.com/neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example.git). We extend these results as follows:

1. Add support for model quantization and mixed precision QLoRA using `peft` and `bitsandbytes`.
2. Enable multi-gpu training with DDP/FSDP using `accelerate`.
3. Add `bitsandbytes` 8-bit optimizers as defaults: `AdamW8Bit` or `PagedAdamW8Bit`. 
4. Introduce an MPNN architecture with edge convolution and multiple aggregations to improve encoding of textualized Knowledge Graphs in `MPNN.py`.
5. With a reduced memory footprint and improved architecture, we finetune MPNN+Llama-70B with QLoRA, which achieves competitive performance with a full finetune of GAT+Llama-8B on the STaRK-Prime Q&A benchmark.

## Architecture Overview

The G-Retriever architecture has four main parts:
1. GraphRAG retrieval for selecting the most relevant subgraph $`S^* = (V^*, E^*)`$ for a query. The retrieval uses a modified Prize Collecting Steiner Tree (PCST) algorithm with prizes determined by semantic similarity of nodes and edge text to the initial query. Subgraphs for this repo have been precomputed using Neo4j and can be downloaded with `get_precomputed_kg.py`
2. GNN/MPNN for aggregating and encoding text embeddings associated with nodes $`V^*`$ and edges $`E^*`$ of the knowledge subgraph.
3. A projection module to map the GNN/MPNN output into a set of tokens.
4. An LLM that takes the original query, context from all text in the subgraph, and graph tokens computed by the GNN/projection.

The GNN, Projection module, and LLM all have trainable parameters. For LORA/QLoRA training, the base LLM parameters are frozen and only the `A`/`B` adapter matrices are trainable.

We improve the graph encoding step by replacing the GAT network with a more expressive MPNN. Our MPNN implementation uses `EdgeConv` layers[[1](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.07829)] to consider relative distances between node embeddings in the knowledge subgraph and multiple aggregations[[2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.05718)] to improve expressive power, and residual connections to improve gradient flow and reduce oversmoothing, i.e. 

```
MPNN(
  (conv): ModuleList(
    (0): EdgeConv(in_features=1536, out_features=2048, aggr=['sum', 'max', 'mean', 'var'])
    (1-3): 3 x EdgeConv(in_features=2048, out_features=2048, aggr=['sum', 'max', 'mean', 'var'])
  )
  (project): ModuleList(
    (0): Linear(in_features=1536, out_features=2048, bias=True)
    (1-2): 2 x Identity()
    (3): Linear(in_features=2048, out_features=2048, bias=True)
  )
)
```

Additionally, we improve the projection module by replacing the 2-layer MLP with a Transformer style FFN (with extra post-LN for token scaling). e.g. mapping a `dim=2048` MPNN output to a set of `8` tokens of `embedding_dim=4096` for Llama-8B as:
```
Proj(
  (net): Sequential(
    (0): LayerNorm((2048,), eps=1e-05, elementwise_affine=True)
    (1): Linear(in_features=2048, out_features=2048, bias=True)
    (2): GELU(approximate='none')
    (3): Dropout(p=0.05, inplace=False)
    (4): Linear(in_features=2048, out_features=32768, bias=True)
    (5): Dropout(p=0.05, inplace=False)
    (6): Unflatten(dim=-1, unflattened_size=(8, 4096))
    (7): LayerNorm((4096,), eps=1e-05, elementwise_affine=True)
  )
)
```
which improves training stability and token scaling for compatibilty with text based tokens.

## Results

We finetune two QLoRA models for comparison with the original full finetune (`GAT+Llama-8B`) in [neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example](https://github.com/neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example.git). While full finetuning of the `GAT+Llama-8B` still achieves the best results for the for the first returned answer (i.e.,`Hits@1` and `MRR`) each of the QLoRA finetunes nearly matches this performance while greatly reducing the number of trainable parameters (**params** in the table). Notably, the MPNN architecture improves performance on questions with multiple answers (i.e., `Hits@5` and `Recall@20`) by reducing oversquashing/bottlenecking of the original GAT network, and hence more relevant information from the knowledge subgraph can be used to inform answers.

![Results](qlora_graphrag.png)



## Installation

First, set up this repository: 

```
git clone https://github.com/nngabe/qlora_graphrag.git
cd qlora_graphrag/
```

Then install the necessary dependencies and datasets:

```
source setup.sh
```

To download Llama models, you need to login to huggingface with your access token:
```
hf auth login --token YOUR_HF_TOKEN_WITH_LLAMA_ACCESS
```

Lastly, to reproduce the results of the experiments run:
```
python -u single.py --device cuda --llama_version llama3.1-8b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 4096 --epochs 4 --gnn mpnn
python -u single.py --device cuda --llama_version llama3.3-70b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 512 --epochs 4 --paged_adamw --gnn mpnn
```
or on multi-gpu nodes:
```
accelerate launch --config_file configs/fsdp.yaml multi.py --llama_version llama3.1-8b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 4096 --lora_alpha 2048 --epochs 4 --gnn mpnn
accelerate launch --config_file configs/fsdp.yaml multi.py --llama_version llama3.3-70b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 512 --lora_alpha 256 --epochs 4 --paged_adamw --gnn mpnn
```

Commit message:

Update README with time savings for subgraph retrieval
Added information about the time saved by using the precomputed knowledge graph.

README.md, after:

# LLM Finetuning: GraphRAG with GNN+LLM architecture on STaRK-Prime Knowledge Graph

This repo contains experiments for Knowledge Graph Retrieval (GraphRAG) with a GNN+LLM architecture for Q&A on the STaRK-Prime benchmark dataset. We use the base GNN+LLM architecture [G-Retriever](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07630), and [STaRK-Prime KG Q&A](https://stark.stanford.edu/dataset_prime.html) benchmark.

This work is based on [neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example](https://github.com/neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example.git). We extend these results as follows:

1. Add support for model quantization and mixed precision QLoRA using `peft` and `bitsandbytes`.
2. Enable multi-gpu training with DDP/FSDP using `accelerate`.
3. Add `bitsandbytes` 8-bit optimizers as defaults: `AdamW8Bit` or `PagedAdamW8Bit`. 
4. Introduce an MPNN architecture with edge convolution and multiple aggregations to improve encoding of textualized Knowledge Graphs in `MPNN.py`.
5. With a reduced memory footprint and improved architecture, we finetune MPNN+Llama-70B with QLoRA, which achieves competitive performance with a full finetune of GAT+Llama-8B on the STaRK-Prime Q&A benchmark.

## Architecture Overview

The G-Retriever architecture has four main parts:
1. GraphRAG retrieval for selecting the most relevant subgraph $`S^* = (V^*, E^*)`$ for a query. The retrieval uses a modified Prize Collecting Steiner Tree (PCST) algorithm with prizes determined by semantic similarity of nodes and edge text to the initial query. Subgraphs for this repo have been precomputed using Neo4j and can be downloaded with `get_precomputed_kg.py`, which saves ~2 hours of time to collect the subgraphs for each query.
2. GNN/MPNN for aggregating and encoding text embeddings associated with nodes $`V^*`$ and edges $`E^*`$ of the knowledge subgraph.
3. A projection module to map the GNN/MPNN output into a set of tokens.
4. An LLM that takes the original query, context from all text in the subgraph, and graph tokens computed by the GNN/projection.

The GNN, Projection module, and LLM all have trainable parameters. For LORA/QLoRA training, the base LLM parameters are frozen and only the `A`/`B` adapter matrices are trainable.

We improve the graph encoding step by replacing the GAT network with a more expressive MPNN. Our MPNN implementation uses `EdgeConv` layers[[1](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.07829)] to consider relative distances between node embeddings in the knowledge subgraph and multiple aggregations[[2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.05718)] to improve expressive power, and residual connections to improve gradient flow and reduce oversmoothing, i.e. 

```
MPNN(
  (conv): ModuleList(
    (0): EdgeConv(in_features=1536, out_features=2048, aggr=['sum', 'max', 'mean', 'var'])
    (1-3): 3 x EdgeConv(in_features=2048, out_features=2048, aggr=['sum', 'max', 'mean', 'var'])
  )
  (project): ModuleList(
    (0): Linear(in_features=1536, out_features=2048, bias=True)
    (1-2): 2 x Identity()
    (3): Linear(in_features=2048, out_features=2048, bias=True)
  )
)
```

Additionally, we improve the projection module by replacing the 2-layer MLP with a Transformer style FFN (with extra post-LN for token scaling). e.g. mapping a `dim=2048` MPNN output to a set of `8` tokens of `embedding_dim=4096` for Llama-8B as:
```
Proj(
  (net): Sequential(
    (0): LayerNorm((2048,), eps=1e-05, elementwise_affine=True)
    (1): Linear(in_features=2048, out_features=2048, bias=True)
    (2): GELU(approximate='none')
    (3): Dropout(p=0.05, inplace=False)
    (4): Linear(in_features=2048, out_features=32768, bias=True)
    (5): Dropout(p=0.05, inplace=False)
    (6): Unflatten(dim=-1, unflattened_size=(8, 4096))
    (7): LayerNorm((4096,), eps=1e-05, elementwise_affine=True)
  )
)
```
which improves training stability and token scaling for compatibilty with text based tokens.

## Results

We finetune two QLoRA models for comparison with the original full finetune (`GAT+Llama-8B`) in [neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example](https://github.com/neo4j-product-examples/neo4j-gnn-llm-example.git). While full finetuning of the `GAT+Llama-8B` still achieves the best results for the for the first returned answer (i.e.,`Hits@1` and `MRR`) each of the QLoRA finetunes nearly matches this performance while greatly reducing the number of trainable parameters (**params** in the table). Notably, the MPNN architecture improves performance on questions with multiple answers (i.e., `Hits@5` and `Recall@20`) by reducing oversquashing/bottlenecking of the original GAT network, and hence more relevant information from the knowledge subgraph can be used to inform answers.

![Results](qlora_graphrag.png)



## Installation

First, set up this repository: 

```
git clone https://github.com/nngabe/qlora_graphrag.git
cd qlora_graphrag/
```

Then install the necessary dependencies and datasets:

```
source setup.sh
```

To download Llama models, you need to login to huggingface with your access token:
```
hf auth login --token YOUR_HF_TOKEN_WITH_LLAMA_ACCESS
```

Lastly, to reproduce the results of the experiments run:
```
python -u single.py --device cuda --llama_version llama3.1-8b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 4096 --epochs 4 --gnn mpnn
python -u single.py --device cuda --llama_version llama3.3-70b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 512 --epochs 4 --paged_adamw --gnn mpnn
```
or on multi-gpu nodes:
```
accelerate launch --config_file configs/fsdp.yaml multi.py --llama_version llama3.1-8b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 4096 --lora_alpha 2048 --epochs 4 --gnn mpnn
accelerate launch --config_file configs/fsdp.yaml multi.py --llama_version llama3.3-70b --use_lora --use_quantization --freeze_llm --lora_rank 512 --lora_alpha 256 --epochs 4 --paged_adamw --gnn mpnn
```
